# Filters and scopes

SpecSync synchronizes scenarios from feature files to Azure DevOps test cases when using the `push` command. For that you have to specify which feature files and which scenarios within the feature files should be considered by SpecSync. This is the **synchronization scope**.

Similarly to this, when using the `pull` command \(for [two-way synchronization](two-way-synchronization.md)\), you have to specify the the scope of the test cases that should be considered.

The **synchronization scope** defines the set of artifacts \(scenarios or test cases\) that are to be synchronized. In some cases though you don't want to synchronize the entire scope, but only a subset of them. For example while working on a particular story, you only want to synchronize the scenarios related to that story. This can be specified by the **synchronization filter**.

So scope is a permanent configuration setting, filter is a temporary setting that you want to apply only for a particular synchronization run.

## Setting local scope for `push`

The set of feature files and scenarios to be considered for the `push` command can be specified in the [`local` Configuration](../reference/configuration/configuration-local.md).

You can choose about which feature files should be considered

* based on a .NET project
* based on a folder
* based on a list of files
* based on a list of files generated by another process

You can also limit the scope by particular scenario tags. E.g. for only synchronizing the scenarios tagged with `@done` but not tagged with `@ignored` or `@planned`, the following setting can be used.

```text
{
  ...
  "local": {
    "tags": "@done and not (@ignored or @planned)"
  },
  ...
}
```

## Setting local filter for `push`

To synchronize only a subset of the scenarios within the local scope, a filter tag expression can be specified as a command line option. \(See [Usage](../reference/command-line-reference.md) for details.\) For example to only synchronize the scenarios related to a particular user story \(tagged with `@story:123`\), the following option can be used.

```text
path-to-specsync-package\tools\SpecSync4AzureDevOps.exe push --tagFilter "@story:123"
```

## Setting remote scope for `pull`

The remote scope for pull can be specified with a test suite. Read more about this in [Two-way synchronization](two-way-synchronization.md).

